A journey towards sustainable future. A journey that starts with each and every one of us.

Most of the people are unaware of their carbon footprint
This unawareness leads to a misconception

Making small changes in our daily lives that collectively make a significant impact.
Our belief
4

CarbonSense
Transformative , one-stop solution
Track, Reduce, and Take control 
of your carbon footprint

But what sets CarbonSense apart from the rest?


UEG(User-centric, Educative, Gamified) 
Approach

UEG(User-centric, Educative, Gamified) 
Approach
minimizing the burden
maximizing the impact
systems that aligns with the needs, preferences, and behaviors of users
8
We have streamlined the whole process

UEG(User-centric, Educative, Gamified) 
Approach
We Aim to empower  the users through educative approach
user-specific guidance
Users to learn and make more informed choices

UEG(User-centric, Educative, Gamified) 
Approach
Gamification techniques like Green competitions and Daily Quizzes
Users compete and for a sense of motivation and participation they receive Green credits
10
In a crowded market of sustainability products, CarbonSense will standout
Not only making sustainability more fun and engaging but puting it into practice

Green Credits
Central element of CarbonSense
Incentives for making sustainable choices(Carbon Points)
10,000 Carbon points = 1 Green Credit
Utilized for transactions within the application's services.
11
Hold a real value


Sustainable-Select
Revolutionary feature in the market of sustainability products
Green credits for User's Carbon consious shopping behaviour
Find and purchase products with lowest carbon footprint
Investors benefit from the potential market change

12



Impact of Sustainable-Select
single household
= 2kg
cumulative impact
of Thousands of users

Environmental Impact:
13

Green Commute

Game Changer in Online Vehicle Booking
Shows you the route and carbon footprint of diffrent vehicls
All you need to do:
      Choose most sustainable option
      Reduce Emission and Earn Green credits
14

Eco - Efficiency
Calculates your personal impact  in Waste Generation
Educate and Empower people to reduce Waste Carbon Footprint in their Locality
Here's the exciting part: The Green Competition.
Compete and earn Green credits

15


Impact of Eco - Efficiency
Proven Examples

Duolingo — grow its user base to more than 300 million.
Autodesk — With conversion rates increasing by 15%.
Kenco — 45% increase in sales 
KFC Japan — Increase in-store sales by an impressive 106%.
Kahoot! — growth rate of 75%
16

Power Optima

Real-time Carbon Footprint based on Electricity usage
Green credits for Users behavioural change in Electricity consumption
Effortlessly monitor and optimize energy consumption
17
To make it even better: Power optima is also in Green competition


Eco - Analytics
Wraps Up all the features in one place
Seamless visualization for all types of users
Carbon Emission and Carbon Credit tracking

Its not just an app
but catalyst for change
It aims to change the lifestyle
Here's the interesting part!
Bring out Behavioral changes
18
How do we do it? The modular Architecture of CarbonSense covers almost all the aspects


Our vision aligns with the Gazette released by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and LiFE Initiative
These Green Credits will be made available for trading on a domestic market platform !
It gave us a massive push to prove that our idea was feasible and its not far from reality
19


Beyond individual action
Share of Global 
Market Growth
Share of Global 
Market Value
Sustainable products - Market
17.8B usd
60.1B usd
21
In-app purchases
Sponserships and advertisements
Premium subscription



Business Model:
Green-Commute : B2C Model
Power-Optima : B2G & Freemium model
Eco-Efficiency : Sponsorship Model
20
Eco-Shop : B2C & Subscription Model



Market Strategies
Social Media Promotions
22
Promotes our application as Green Market Place in Official Websites
Promote Power-Optima through EB-Bill Recording Agents
Promotion through Sustainablility Community
Email Marketing



Growth Strategies
Subscription Revenue $12/year
Collaboration Revenue 2% Total ROI
Commission Revenue 0.5% + 0.5%
20
Email Marketing generates $0.08 in Revenue per mail


Enhanced Data Analytics.
Integration with Smart Home Devices.
Gamification and Challenges.
Expanded Sustainable Select Marketplace.
Integration with Carbon Offsetting Programs.
Collaborations with Governments and Institutions.
CarbonConnect
Unleashing Tomorrow's Potential: Future-Proofing CarbonSense
23


Our Home








1.Frontend Dependencies: These technologies shape CarbonSense's user interface. React JS facilitates dynamic web components, while HTML and CSS provide structure and styling. Material-UI (MUI) offers ready-made UI elements, and Apex Charts aids in visualizing data.

2.Backend Dependencies: Node.js and Express.js form the server-side core, handling data processing and API creation. MongoDB acts as the database for data storage. Together, they manage communication between frontend and backend.

3.Authentication and Authorization Dependencies: These dependencies secure user access using JWT and enable seamless payments via Stripe, enhancing platform security and user experience.

4.Various APIs: External APIs like Carbon Sutra, Flight Fare, and IRCTC API provide real-time data. Carbon Sutra calculates vehicle emissions, Flight Fare estimates flight carbon footprints, and IRCTC API assesses train-related emissions. These APIs enrich CarbonSense with accurate environmental information.